 Thank you very much! One question I had while reading through it is, what is "remapping" referring to?

    What I sent you is what we get from Poland, they already add some calculations. I was assuming one could simply omit these columns when importing the data to R.
    Unfortunately, I don't know. I can backtrack when the corresponding sample was taken, but I don't know how long it took until it was actually sent and then analysed. However, as far as I am aware the changes in the PEG_BVOL file are "backwards compatible". So, if for species A (size classes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6) it was decided that size classes 1, 2 & 3 are actually another species, those three size classes would be moved over while species A would now simply start with size class 4; 4, 5 & 6 would not be renamed to species A size class 1, 2 & 3. Thus, if a code corresponding to the change log is run over the data to change species A & size class 1 to species B & size class 1, it shouldn't matter which BVOL file version what we got from Poland was based on - if they used the old one, species A & size class 1 would be changed to species B & size class 1, and if they already used the newer version, there simply wouldn't be any species A & size class 1.
    I'm afraid I don't have any of Emil's code, but I do have what he sent me: a file with all LMO phytoplankton data up to that point adjusted to PEG_BVOL_2020. I will try to attach it here, I think it should be small enough.
    I'm afraid those cases would need to be flagged and then addressed manually. In this case, for example, I could find the name in WORMS and then go through the PEG_BVOL file to see, which synonym they used.


I have gone through the whole change log now and it seems there were 25 name changes, sometimes for all size classes and sometimes only for certain ones (as used in the example in 3.). In addition, there were 289 changes pertaining to size classes. Regarding the other question raised on github regarding the Gymnodinium rows without size classes, a manual check revealed that those could be assigned based on PEG_BVOL, my assumption is that what they used as their basis (maybe a subset of the PEG_BVOL file?) didn't include the corresponding size classes in case of heterotrophy. Any instance like that would also need to be flagged so it can be checked on a case by case basis.
