Hi Daniel,

The attached file LMO_378 I an example of what we get from the Polish laboratory that does the microscopic analyses for us for one LMO occasion.
What I would need in the end is a file/document/dataframe/... that gives me information about the alga and their abundance at the respective LMO occasion, then I know I can calculate biomass as volume and carbon based on that.
The information on the algae should come from the HELCOM file, the columns I'd need would be Division, Class, Order, Genus, Species, Trophy, Geometric_Shape, FORMULA, SizeClassNo, Unit, Length(l1)µm, Length(l2)µm, Width(w)µm, Height(h)µm, Diameter(d1)µm, Diameter(d2)µm, No_of_cells/counting_unit, Calculated_volume_µm3/counting_unit, Filament_length_of_cell(µm) and Calculated_Carbon_pg/counting_unit. I know there are commands in R to combine dataframes based on one or several columns so I could define species and size class and have the dataframes combined accordingly. 
However, since some of the original files were based on older versions of the HELCOM file, I need to take the change log into account. For example, Lingulodinium polyedra was recently renamed to Lingulaulax polyedra so if I only command it to combine the dataframes based on species and size class, that would not work as the abundance noted down for Lingulodinium polyedra would of course not be connected to the dimensions, volume, carbon content, etc. of Lingulaulax polyedra.
What Emil did, was to manually log all the changes since the first HELCOM file and have that run over the dataframe with the LMO abundances so changes in name or size class dimensions, etc. would be dealt with before a combination with the HELCOM file would be attempted. This way, first Lingulodinium polyedra would be renamed Lingulaulax polyedra in the LMO file so then in a second step there would be no hiccups to combine this with the HELCOM file. 
The issue is that from PEG_BVOL_2025 to PEG_BVOL_2026 alone there were 196 changes made. And from 2015, when my LMO analysis would start, to today there have been a total of 9075 changes. I know I wouldn't have to come up with all of those correction on my own, since Emil did them until 2021 so if I can get a hold of either his code or a file generated by him then, I at least wouldn't have to worry about all those. I think I might have a file buried somewhere in my email inbox that fit those criteria. However, even if I only have to take care of any changes from 2021 onwards, that's still 3590 changes and while some of them concern authors or other things not important to my analysis, the majority will need to be taken into account and doing all of this by coding each individual change manually as one line of code won't be feasible. 

Would you have any idea on how to tackle this?

I hope I explained sufficiently where the issue lies but if there are any more questions, please let me know.

Thank you very much for your help.

Kind regards
Carolin
